---
title: Position Paper of Peru - UNSC
tags: [Model United Nations, Politics]
style: fill
color: light
description: As delegate of the Republic of Peru in a Model United Nations (2019) in high school, here is the position paper I wrote on the agenda of 'Reconstitution of the UN Peacekeeping Corps', for which I was awarded 'Best Position Paper in the UN Security Council'!
---

Name of the delegate: Suparna Prasad
Committee: United Nations Security Council
Agenda: Reconstitution of the UN Peacekeeping Corps
Country: The Republic of Peru

The United Nations Security Council is the organ of the United Nations responsible for maintaining global peace and security. It has the power to pass resolutions binding on all the other organs of the United Nations. The Republic of Peru is currently one of the ten non-permanent members which have been elected into the UNSC for the term 2018-19. Peru has always done its level best to contribute to the UN Peacekeeping Corps by sending its best military personnel and officers for various missions. Current Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra has said that he is confident that Peru can increase its contribution to the UN peacekeeping operations, so as to protect areas affected by several conflicts.

There have been allegations against the UN Peacekeepers stationed across the globa, accusing them of sexual harassment and abuse of women and children, violation of human rights and murder of civilians. The United Nations received 70 allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse across all its entities and implementeing partners, between the beginning of April 2018 to the end of June 2018, which was announced by UN Deputy Spokesperson, Farhan Haq with 18 cases involving peacekeeping operations, and 25 from "agencies, funds and programmes". Peru has expressed its disappointment regarding the allegations agains peacekeepers' misconduct with civilians on multiple occasions and has suggested measures to mitigate these issues.

Firstly, Peru believes that the UN must implemente comprehensive prevention strategies backed by real sanctions imposed on countries. Secondly, the introduction of a Code of Conduct, which must be annexed to the Memorandum of Understanding, so that troop-contributing countries and other Member States are fully aware of their legal obligations and consequences on their nations in cases of misconduct by their troops. The Peruvian delegate to the UN, Oswaldo De Rivero, also stressed the primacy of international human rights law in and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Along with this, the Security Council must also consider the reluctance of victims to come forward, either due to ignorance or reverance for what they perceive to be international authority. To overcome this issue, Peru has suggested stationing an ombudsman at the local and community levels to hear the grievances of the victims and bring them to the notice of higher authorities. Finally, the establishment of a database containing information regarding those peacekeepers who had allegations and sanctions imposed on them so that they can be repreimanded along with the recommendation that member states must enforce the 'zero tolerance policy' for abuse by peacekeepers on civilians, so as to maintain the image and reputation of the UN, was another valuable and plausible suggestion by De Rivero.

Emphasizing the need to analyse the multiple challenges facing peacekeeping operations in increasingly hostile environments, Peruvian delegate to the UN, Luis Ugarelli during the UNSC conference in 2015, offered a number of suggestions, including that the Security Council provide clear guidance to missions. Expressing concern about attacks against peacekeepers, Peru has recommended that specialized training be provided to all personnel so that they can safely and fully discharge their mandates. Our country has also stated that the Member States must provide specialised mission-specific training in areas outlined in clearly drafted, realistic mandates, and in such tasks as civilian protection, human rights activities, disarmament strategies and demining work. Capacity and integration projects in host communities must be built on mutual trust, he said, also stressing that personnel must undertake gener-related training to highlight the important role that women play. The Republic of peru constantly calls for partnerships and cooperation agreements from other countires and organisations to be involved in civil society and relevant institutions in order to promote the efforts of peacekeeping operations. 

The Republic of Peru will make sincere efforts to pass resolutions in the UNSC to tackle these issues, and the involvement and contribution of other countires in doing the same will be much appreciated. Together, we can, and must to put an end to this problem.

Thank you. 

## Endnotes :
- https://press.un.org/en/2006/sc8649.doc.htm
- https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/security-council-issues-presidential-statement-underscoring-key-role-of-peacekeeping-promoting
- https://andina.pe/ingles/noticia-president-vizcarra-peru-expects-to-increase-contribution-to-peacekeeping-operations-726466.aspx
- https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/un-news/un-receives-70-new-allegations-of-sexual-exploitation-and-abuse-three-months