---
title: A Deep Dive into Generative AI
tags: [Tech Blog, Article]
style: fill
color: success
description: What is GenAI and how is it changing the world? <br> Here's my take.
---

ChatGPT is probably in the top few bookmarks in most of our
browsers. One of the hottest tech trends of the 21st century, it is
capable of answering any conundrum posed to it, generating code,
images, text, videos, or anything new - with just a text prompt. This
technology is heralding today’s AI-driven era in an entirely different
direction. This article takes a Deep Dive into this brand-new world.
ChatGPT, Google Bard, ChatSonic, DALL-E, Midjourney and
several other platforms are all models of Generative Pre-Trained
Transformers (GPT) or Generative AI, that fall under the vast
umbrella of Artificial Intelligence. These systems can generate new
content modeled on instances of existing datasets.

But in today’s world that is brimming with data that has stoked a
dire need for larger data centers, more efficient processors and
top-dollar resources, why would we want to generate a surplus of it
with Generative AI? The answer lies in the question - it can generate
enormous amounts of data with appreciable accuracy backed by a
human-like thought process, such that it can eradicate the need for
us to perform monotonous and time-consuming tasks. Still in the
early stages of development, Gen AI is primarily being used in the
IT, media and telecommunications fields wherein, unlike the
pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors, accuracy and veracity of data
are not of utmost importance. Deployment of these models has
optimized product-development cycles fuelling greater productivity.

For students, different flavors of Gen AI can drastically reduce
development time. For instance, OpenAI’s Codex can generate
concise code for any problem statement, and for those looking to put
together hassle-free, flawless presentations in minutes, tools like
SlidesAI and Beautiful.AI save the day. Incomprehensible topics can
be summarized in simple words by WordTune and QuillBot. For
those feeling stuck in an unimaginative rut, writing assistants like
Writesonic and Jasper can rekindle creativity by suggesting new
ideas for art, music, and expression. Meta’s SeamlessM4T is a boon
for multilingual learners, capable of translating and transcribing
real-time conversations and texts into nearly a hundred languages.
Technological advances often cause disruption, but historically, they
always eventually fuel economic and employment growth - the same
applies to Generative AI. Initially, automation of multiple sectors
may lead to job losses, but with time, jobs demanding novel skills
and expertise will become the need of the hour, we just have to be
ready for it. Some examples include but are not limited to, ‘Prompt
Engineers’ who can skillfully design prompts for large language
models to generate outputs with proximity to expectations; ‘AI
Auditors’, those responsible for ensuring that results generated by a
GPT-model are unbiased and accurate, and as the name suggests,
‘AI Trainers’ who will have to train models to be ‘more human’ to
better customer-business relations, may be some of the most
sought-after jobs.

But, there exist two sides to every coin. For models to give accurate
and well-researched content, they must be trained with massive
datasets that will always include biases, inherently leading to
AI-generated responses being tinted by the same. With increased
dependence on a powerful tool like Gen AI, it can place one’s
creativity and problem-solving abilities in a crutch. There are also
ethical concerns attached, as it can comply with malicious intentions
by generating false and derogatory information.

Whether the strength wielded by generative AI will be a boon or a
bane, only time will tell. But finally, it is up to us, the creators, to
regulate its safe and secure usage, because as the saying goes, ‘With
great power comes great responsibility.’